1. Am J Transl Res. 2021 Oct 15;13(10):12034-12042. eCollection 2021.

Application of traditional Chinese medicine syndrome differentiation in 
identification of body constitution of hypertensive and diabetic patients.

Fang Y(1), Luo L(2), Li R(1).

Author information:
(1)Basic Medical College, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University Hangzhou City, 
Zhejiang Province, China.
(2)Beijing University of Chinese Medicine Beijing, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the application of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) 
syndrome differentiation in identification of body constitution of hypertensive 
and diabetic patients.
METHODS: A total of 110 hypertensive patients with diabetes treated in our 
hospital were enrolled in this study, and were divided into a study group (SG, 
n=60) and a control group (CG, n=50) according to different intervention 
methods. Patients in the CG received conventional western medical intervention 
for hypertension and diabetes, while patients in the SG received body 
constitution-identified TCM syndrome differentiation intervention additionally. 
The changes of blood pressure and plasma glucose during the intervention were 
compared between the two groups, the clinical effect and quality of life of the 
two groups were evaluated, and multivariate stepwise Logistic regression 
analysis on influencing factor of TCM body constitution was conducted.
RESULTS: Compared with that before intervention, the proportion of gentleness 
constitution in the SG showed a significant increase (P<0.05) after 
intervention. Dynamic analysis during the intervention showed that patients in 
the SG had lower systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP), 
lower level of fasting plasma glucose (GLU) and 2-h postprandial plasma glucose 
(2hPG) than the CG from 1 to 12 months after intervention (P<0.05). Patients in 
the SG scored higher than the CG on all SF-36 dimensions after intervention 
(P<0.05). Multivariate stepwise Logistic regression analysis showed that 
dampness-heat constitution, blood-stasis constitution, Yin-deficiency 
constitution and phlegm-dampness constitution were the main risk factors for 
hypertension with diabetes (P<0.05).
CONCLUSION: Body constitution-identified TCM syndrome differentiation treatment 
for hypertensive patients with diabetes is effective, which can significantly 
improve the plasma glucose and blood pressure indices of patients. Dampness-heat 
constitution, blood-stasis constitution, Yin-deficiency constitution and 
phlegm-dampness constitution are the risk factors for hypertension with 
diabetes.

AJTR Copyright © 2021.

PMCID: PMC8581866
PMID: 34786139

Conflict of interest statement: None.