1. J Chin Med Assoc. 2018 Apr;81(4):358-365. doi: 10.1016/j.jcma.2018.01.005. Epub 
2018 Mar 2.

Constitution of traditional chinese medicine and related factors in women of 
childbearing age.

Jiang QY(1), Li J(2), Zheng L(3), Wang GH(4), Wang J(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Prevention, Tongji University School of Medicine, Shanghai, 
China; Department of Health Care Management, Public Health School of Fujian 
Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China.
(2)Department of Health Care Management, Public Health School of Fujian Medical 
University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China; Key Laboratory of Arrhythmias Ministry of 
Education, Tongji University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(3)Shanghai East Hospital, Tongji University, Shanghai, China.
(4)Shanghai First Maternity and Infant Hospital, Tongji University School of 
Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(5)Tongji Hospital affiliated to Tongji University, Shanghai, China. Electronic 
address: 18918513937@163.com.

BACKGROUND: This study investigates the constitution of traditional Chinese 
medicine (TCM) among women who want to be pregnant in one year and explores 
factors related to TCM constitution.
METHODS: This study was conducted on women who participated in free 
preconception check-ups provided by the Zhabei District Maternity and Child Care 
Center in Shanghai, China. The information regarding the female demographic 
characteristics, physical condition, history of pregnancy and childbearing, diet 
and behavior, and social psychological factors was collected, and TCM 
constitution assessment was performed. The Chi-square test, t-test, logistic 
regression analysis, and multinomial logistic regression analysis were used to 
explore the related factors of TCM constitution.
RESULTS: The participants in this study were aged 28.3 ± 3.0 years. 
Approximately fifty-five women in this study had Unbalanced Constitution. 
Logistic regression analysis showed that Shanghai residence, dysmenorrhea, gum 
bleeding, aversion to vegetables, preference for raw meat, job stress, and 
economic stress were significantly and negatively associated with Balanced 
Constitution. Multinomial logistic analysis showed that Shanghai residence was 
significantly associated with Yang-deficiency, Yin-deficiency, and Stagnant Qi 
Constitutions; gum bleeding was significantly associated with Yin-deficiency, 
Stagnant Blood, Stagnant Qi, and Inherited Special Constitutions; aversion to 
vegetables was significantly associated with Damp-heat Constitution; job stress 
was significantly associated with Yang-deficiency, Phlegm-dampness, Damp-heat, 
Stagnant Blood, and Stagnant Qi Constitutions; and economic stress was 
significantly associated with Yang-deficiency, and Stagnant Qi Constitutions.
CONCLUSION: The application of TCM constitution to preconception care would be 
beneficial for early identification of potential TCM constitution risks and be 
beneficial for early intervention (e.g., health education, and dietary 
education), especially during the women who do not have a medical condition and 
those who have related factors found in this study.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Taiwan LLC.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcma.2018.01.005
PMID: 29503127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]